+++
title = 'Application performance determined by architecture'
date = 2024-08-10T00:00:00-07:00
draft = false
categories = []
tags = ["performance", "architecture", "application", "product", "infrastructure"]
cover_image='/images/cover/knoxwelle__2017-05-21T220002.000Z.jpg'
+++
The performance of an application is determined by its architecture. At first glance, this assertion seems obvious, but real-life experience shows the opposite. For example, software architects often believe that application performance problems can be solved by simply switching to the software infrastructure from another manufacturer. The source of this belief may be a river of noise around the test results; for example, it is stated that the product of the leading company is 25% superior in performance to the nearest competitor. However, if the leader product performs the operation in 3 milliseconds and the competitor product in 4 milliseconds, the stated 25% (one millisection) means very little against the background of the overall low performance, which is rooted in architecture inefficiency.
  In addition to IT managers and performance testing teams, there are other groups of people, such as the developer's support service and the authors of the app performance management books, who recommend that you do the subtle configuration of the application's infrastructure: play with memory allocation operations, connectivity pool sizes, flow pool size, and so on. But if the application is not designed efficiently enough for the expected load or its functional architecture uses computing resources inappropriately, then no subtle adjustment will deliver the desired speed and scalability. A complete redesign of the internal logic and/or deployment strategy will be required.
  Ultimately, behind the facade of any manufacturer’s product and the architecture of any application, there are the same fundamental principles of distributed data processing and physical patterns: applications and the products they use are performed as processes on limited-power computers, interacting with each other through stacks of protocols and communication channels with non-zero delays. So people should understand and accept that the application architecture is the main factor determining its performance and scalability. These quality features cannot be improved either by magic—by miraculously changing technologies—or by fine-tuning the infrastructure. Any improvement in these areas requires hard work and careful architecture.