+++
title = 'You negotiate more often than you think'
date = 2024-07-30T00:00:00-07:00
draft = false
categories = []
tags = ["need", "servers", "system", "sponsor", "server"]
cover_image='/images/cover/knoxwelle__2017-07-25T114411.000Z.jpg'
+++
All of us have been "buried" for savings by "budget" modifications, which are clever technology solutions.The dialogue proceeds as follows:

"Is X really necessary?" The sponsor of the project queries.

Almost anything that is necessary for the system can be swapped out for X, including extra servers, software licenses, external backups, and power sources. The topic is always posed in a colloquial manner, as though you are spending all of your allowance on comic books and chewing gum, and mature individuals should consider investing in new shells, which will hold their future earnings.

"Yes," is the appropriate response to this query. utterly essential." But virtually nobody responds, for whatever reason.

We have technical schooling, after all, and compromise is the skill of every technical profession.If you install multiple white wheels in the data center and place interns there, it is obvious that no one will require unusual power sources.Rather than responding with an emphatic "Yes, absolutely necessary," we say something more accurate: "If you're willing to live with the gaps caused by prevention and by every memory failure, you can actually get by without a second server."However this issue can be avoided if we get a memory with automatic regularity control.Consequently, the operating system only malfunctions once every 3.9 days on average, requiring the server to reload at night. Despite this, the trainees may still rely on it when they are bored of turning the wheels. 

Even though everything above may be true, you shouldn't say it. The sponsor gives up on you as soon as you say "really." 

The issue is that, when seen from a technical perspective, your sponsor is obviously aware that he is engaging in negotiation. He's playing a "go out/do not go out" tactical manoeuvre while you're trying to figure out a way to solve this together. Furthermore, you should never give in on the first demand in a negotiation. The following is the proper response to the query "Do we really need X?"

The entire system will "fall" roughly three times a day in the absence of a second server, particularly during peak load times and during board demonstrations. To guarantee that one independent pair maintains 100% performance even in the event that the other pair unexpectedly stops working, we actually need four servers.

You are fully aware, of course, that the third and fourth servers are not actually required. This is a strategic maneuver designed to compel your sponsor to change the subject of the conversation. You up the stakes and demonstrate that the system is still operational in a rudimentary, dangerous form. Additionally, if you happen to find extra servers by some miracle, you can always use one for testing (ensuring that the testing environment is identical to the working one) and use the other one as an excellent assembly machine.